# Collection create view <a name="collection-create-view"></a>

This is an extension of the `CreateView` that uses a collection to create a new
model, rather than saving a model object.

This module is in UMD format and will create
`ribcage.views.collectionCrateView`, `ribcage.views.CollectionCreateView`, and
`ribcage.viewMixins.CollectionCreateView` globals if not used with an AMD
loader such as RequrieJS.

This module depends on `ribcage.views.CreateView`.

 + [`collectionCreateViewMixin`](#collectioncreateviewmixin)
   - [`#validate()`](#validate)
   - [`#initialize(settings)`](#initialize-settings)
   - [`#getModelData(data)`](#getmodeldata-data)
   - [`#formValid(data)`](#formvalid-data)
   - [`#inputChange(e)`](#inputchange-e)
 + [`CollectionCreateView`](#collectioncreateview)


## `collectionCreateViewMixin` <a name="collectioncreateviewmixin"></a>

This mixin implements the API of the
[`CollectionCreateView`](#collectioncreateview).

It will perform validation using model's `#validate()` method and will crate
the model using collection's `#create()` shortcut method.

### `#validate()` <a name="validate"></a>

Validates the form data using the model stored in `this.model` property.

### `#initialize(settings)` <a name="initialize-settings"></a>

The settings may contain a `model` key which will be used as the model
constructor. The constructor will not be used to instantiate a new model
object, but will still be used to validate the form data. This setting is not
required if collection has a `model` attribute which points to a valid model
constructor.

If this setting is specified, and the collection does not have a `model`
attribute, the specified setting will be assigned to the collection's
attribute.

If neither collection's `model` attribute nor the `model` setting are defined,
an exception will be thrown.

### `#getModelData(data)` <a name="getmodeldata-data"></a>

Returns the attributes that will be used to create the model. This method can
be used to clean the data before it is finally passed to collection's
`#create()` method. Note that no validation will be performed on the data that
is returned from this method. It is assumed that the validation performed on
the form data is enough.

Default implementation of this method simply returns the input.

### `#formValid(data)` <a name="formvalid-data"></a>

Crates the model by calling the collection's `#create()`.

### `#inputChange(e)` <a name="inputchange-e"></a>

Overloads the `ModelView`'s `#inputChange()` handler and removes the model
update hoook. Since this view is not tied to a model instance, there is no need
to update the model on input change.

## `CollectionCreateView` <a name="collectioncreateview"></a>

Please see the documentation on
[`collectionCreateViewMixin`](#collectioncreateviewmixin) for more information
about this view's API.