# Form extras view <a name="form-extras-view"></a>

This view provides methods for manipulating the forms' behavior. This includes
such things as disabling and enabling submit buttons and similar.

This module is in UMD format and will create `ribcage.views.formExtraView`,
`ribcage.views.FormExtraView`, and `ribcage.viewMixins.FormExtraView` globals
if not used with an AMD loader such as RequireJS.

This module depends on `ribcage.views.BaseView`.

## `formExtraViewMixin` <a name="formextraviewmixin"></a>

This mixin implements the API for [`FormExtraView`](#formextraview).

### `#FOCUSABLE_INPUTS` <a name="focusable_inputs"></a>

Defines the jQuery selector for focusable inputs. These are the inputs that can
be safely focused without the focus even affecting their value (provided that
the input is visible).

The default includes the following inputs:

 + `input[type=text]`
 + `input[type=date]`
 + `input[type=number]`
 + `input[type=email]`
 + `textarea`
 + `select`


### `#focusFirst(form)` <a name="focusfirst-form"></a>

Focus the first input in a form.

The `form` argument should be a valid jQuery selector or object.

### `#disableButtons(form)` <a name="disablebuttons-form"></a>

Disables form buttons (both button and input elements of type 'submit').

The `form` argument should be a valid jQuery selector or object.

### `#enableButtons(form)` <a name="enablebuttons-form"></a>

Enables form buttons (both button and input elements of type 'submit').

The `form` argument should be a valid jQuery selector or object.

## `FormExtraView` <a name="formextraview"></a>

Please see the documentation on [`formExtraViewMixin`](#formextraviewmixin) for
more information about this view's API.