# <a name="template-base-view">Template base view</a>

This is a simple view that doesn't do anything on its own. It merely provides a
standard interface for handling an underscore template with context data.

This module is in UMD format and will create `ribcage.views.TemplateBaseView`,
`ribcage.viewMixins.TemplateBaseView`, and `ribcage.views.templateBaseView`
globals if not used with an AMD loader such as RequireJS.

This module depends on Underscore and `ribacage.views.BaseView`.

 + [`templateBaseViewMixin`](#templatebaseviewmixin)
   - [`#templateSettings`](#templatesettings)
   - [`#templateSource`](#templatesource)
   - [`#template`](#template)
   - [`#getContext()`](#getcontext)
   - [`#renderTemplate()`](#rendertemplate)
 + [`TemplateBaseView`](#templatebaseview)


## <a name="templatebaseviewmixin">`templateBaseViewMixin`</a>

This mixin implements the API of the TemplateBaseView.

In addition to providing the API for the somewhat useless TemplateBaseView,
this mixin is also used in many views that require template handlign such as
`ribcage.views.TemplateView` and `ribcage.views.ModalView`.

### <a name="templatesettings">`#templateSettings`</a>

This property is passed in as template settings. The default value is `null`.
If the template function you are using (default is Underscore template) takes
extra settings, you can use this property to specify it.

### <a name="templatesource">`#templateSource`</a>

The template source to render. It provides a simple default for debugging
purposes.

### <a name="template">`#template`</a>

Template to render. This method takes data and passes it to Underscore's
`#template()` method. The default implementation renders the `#templateSource`
property.

### <a name="getcontext">`#getContext()`</a>

Returns template context data. Should return an object whose keys will be used
in the template's scope.

### <a name="rendertemplate">`#renderTemplate()`</a>

Render the template given a context.

## <a name="templatebaseview">`TemplateBaseView`</a>

Please see the documentation on [`templateBaseViewMixin`](#templateviewmixin)
for more information about this view's API.